.TH NVIDIA-RUN 1 "2024-12-24" "nvidia-prime-runner" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nvidia-run \- run a command with NVIDIA PRIME offload
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nvidia-run
[\-\-verbose] [\-\-dry-run] [\-\-no-banner] [command|file] [args...]
.br
.B nvidia-run
run <command|file> [args...]
.br
.B nvidia-run
shell
.br
.B nvidia-run
verify
.br
.B nvidia-run
help | \-\-help
.br
.B nvidia-run
version | \-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nvidia-run
command starts a single process or interactive shell with PRIME offload
environment variables set. It does not change the GPU used by the rest of the
desktop session.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B help
Show usage information.
.TP
.B version
Show the version string.
.TP
.B run
Run a command or file with PRIME offload enabled.
.TP
.B shell
Start an interactive shell with PRIME offload enabled.
.TP
.B verify
Print instructions for verifying renderer output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Print the environment variables and command that would be executed, then exit.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Print environment variables and execution details.
.TP
.B \-\-no-banner
Shell mode only. Suppress the banner printed by the .bashrc hook.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DRI_PRIME
Set to
.I 1
to request PRIME offload for the launched process.
.TP
.B __NV_PRIME_RENDER_OFFLOAD
Set to
.I 1
to enable NVIDIA PRIME render offload for GLX/EGL clients.
.TP
.B __GLX_VENDOR_LIBRARY_NAME
Set to
.I nvidia
to select the NVIDIA GLX vendor library.
.TP
.B NVIDIA_SHELL
Set to
.I 1
for shell mode so the .bashrc hook can apply the banner and env exports.
.TP
.B NVIDIA_NO_BANNER
When set, suppresses the banner printed by the .bashrc hook.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
nvidia-run run firefox-esr
.TP
nvidia-run ./app.AppImage
.TP
nvidia-run shell --no-banner
.TP
nvidia-run verify
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 2
Usage or argument error.
.TP
.B 127
Command not found.
